# XML and JSON Overview

> Both JSON and XML are commonly used in everyday programming challenges to pass data back and forth between software programs. In this topic, you will cover the basics of JSON and XML, including common use cases. Learning how to create and document structured data using JSON and XML can add extra value to your Java developer's toolbox. Additionally, understanding JSON and XML will be quite handy for the upcoming topics of this week.

## JSON

### Basic Data Types

- Strings: text enclosed in doubles quotes
- Numbers: integer or decimal, positive or negative
- Booleans: true or false
- Null: nothing
- Arrays: they are list using square brackets `[ ]`, you can mix data
- Objects: JSON dictionaries, use curly brackets `{ }`, keys and values can be any type.

### Nesting
You can put things inside others, arrays inside arrays, or objects, etc

## XML

Stands for Extensible Markup Language, it is like HTML

- Tags
- Content
- Nested Tags
- Attributes

> You can ignore the first line of an XML file, it is a declaration.


# Getting Started with Apache Maven

> Apache Maven is a software project management tool that makes Java programming easier. In this topic, we’ll guide you step by step through the installation process and get you prepared for your first project in Maven. Along the way, you will get familiar with the substantial benefits that Apache Maven brings to you as a software developer.

# Understanding Maven

> Upon completion of this topic, you will understand better the concepts of POM’s standards, a project life cycle, a repository, and a dependency management system.

## POM

Project Objet Model, default behaviors, folder structure, standarization over configuration.

It contains:

- Project description
- Coordinates => `groupId + artifactId + version`
- Attributes
- Licences information
- Version
- Authors and Contributors
- Dependencies

## Maven lifecycle

### Lifecycle
- Generate a project
- Execute Maven (plugin goals)
- Install a Maven artifact
- Run the app

### Default phases:
- Validate the project is correct
- Compile
- Test
- Package
- Integration-test
- Verify
- Install
- Deploy


# Creating a Project with Maven

# Testing with Maven

## Write unit tests

`mvn test`

## Adding Dependencies

# JUnit Basics

# JUnit Options

## Basic unit tests

Things to do:
- Annotate a method with `@Tests`
- Import `org.junit.Assert.*;`
- Add assert statement to test program logic

## Exception handling tests

```java
@Test (expected = IndexOutOfBoundsException.class)  
public void testMain(){  
    new ArrayList<Object>().get(0);  
}
```

## Ignore tests

`@Ignore[("Message")]`

## Parameterized tests

```java
@Parameters

@RunWith(value = Parameterized.class)
```
