# RDBS and SQL Essentials

This week, you will start with Relational Database Management Systems (RDBMS) and dive into SQL essentials and SQL syntax.  
Note that we will use relational databases and SQL to build a Data Access or Persistence layer of a web application of the capstone project. Just a reminder, a Persistence layer deals with data storage specifics and isolates other parts of a layered application from it. In the capstone project, these specifics include a relational database, SQL, and the Java API to interact with them.  
An RDBMS is a common type of database that stores data in tables so that it can be used in relation to other stored datasets. Most databases used by businesses these days are relational databases and not flat-file or hierarchical databases. The majority of current IT systems and applications are built on relational DBMS.  
SQL is the primary language to operate relational databases. The databases with which you interact are the programs that allow clients to store and manage information in a structured and consistent manner. Almost all of the biggest names in tech go with SQL. Uber, Netflix, Airbnb — the list goes on. Even within the companies like Facebook, Google, and Amazon, which have their specific high-performance database systems, data teams choose SQL to query data and perform analysis.

There are many different vendors that produce relational database management systems (RDBMS). These products vary significantly in their capabilities and costs. Some products are proprietary while others are open source. The list of the main vendors and their products is provided below:



Please be aware that every RDBMS product has a specific SQL language extension. For this reason, some of the features are supportable only by a current SQL language. For example, T-SQL is fully supportable only by SQL Server, PL SQL – for Oracle products, etc.

By the end of this week, you will be able to:

-   use DDL to create a database structure and apply restrictions
-   practice SQL to query, order, and group data sets
-   apply SQL to update and delete data from the tables
-   explore transactions
-   сreate a simple database, execute an SQL query, and manage result sets

## Understanding Databases

> Starting the topic of databases, we will outline some general concepts. Have you ever wondered why people use databases? To cut a long story short – to work with data more effectively and conveniently. By watching the video chapters below, you will determine the purpose of databases and why you might need them. Also, in this topic, we will briefly compare a spreadsheet and a database. They are both efficient ways to store information; however, they have some differences and benefits that you will define and compare.

- Why use a database?
- Understanding databases: Benefits of spreadsheets
- Understanding databases: Benefits of structured data

## Database Foundations

> In this topic, you will discover various types of existing databases, explore keys, unique values, and ways to use them in databases. Moreover, you will learn about the relationships you can create in databases to connect data records differently. We will talk about operations and transactions and review a set of principles or requirements called ACID. While forming your general knowledge of databases, you will learn about the language SQL. It helps to manage databases by giving them exact instructions.

- Relational databases
- Keys and unique values
- Relationships
- ACID and transactions
	- Atomic: indivisible
	- Consistent: integrity
	- Isolated: one at the time
	- Durable: actually written
- Basic SQL
Structured Query Language


## Tables

> In this topic, you will start developing an understanding of how to plan a database. First, we will introduce you to an ER diagram or an entity relationship diagram that will help you to model a future database. Planning and designing a database include making tables, naming them, defining and using different data types for the stored information, and providing primary and foreign keys to make the data unique. You will discover all the details you need to know about tables to arrange data correctly from the very beginning.
> 